content/blog/hetzner-object-storage-with-nextjs.mdx, before:

---
title: "hetzner object storage with nextjs"
description: "Learn how to use hetzner object storage with nextjs"
date: "2025-06-28"
tags: ["nextjs", "hetzner", "object storage", "s3 storage"]
published: no
---

I've been working on an OMS recently and come across an issue of storing files in a distributed environment. First, when I set it up it was
saving the files in the local storage, but then I realised that it would not be a good idea to store the files in the local storage, so I
decided to use Hetzner object storage.

I looked into alternative file storing systems from uploadthing, cloudinary, and AWS S3. I saw that AWS S3 would be good but since I was already
using Hetzner for my hosting, I decided to use Hetzner object storage, to keep it all in one system.

One thing I ran into whilst setting up the object storage with my next.js application was that there wasn't any proper documentation about it.
Most of the documentation was for AWS S3, so it was a lot of trial and error to get it working, but I finally got it working. So, I decided to write this blog post to help others who are
setting up Hetzner object storage with their next.js application.

## setup

First, you need to create an object storage bucket in the Hetzner console. Then, you can use the `@aws-sdk/client-s3` package to interact with the object storage.

### install dependencies

```bash
npm install @aws-sdk/client-s3
```

### database update

Make sure to update your database schema to include a column for the file path. Should be something like this:

```prisma
model File {
  id        String   @id @default(cuid())
  fileName      String
  fileSize      Int
  mimeType      String
  filePath      String
  s3Url         String?
  uploadedBy    String
  uploadedAt    DateTime @default(now())

  // add your relations
  // add your indexes
}
```

### create s3 client

```tsx
import { S3Client } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

const s3 = new S3Client({
  region: "us-east-1", // Must include this or the SDK will throw an error
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
  },
  // This option configures the S3 client to use the "path style" access
  // scheme, where the bucket name is included in the URL path rather than
  // as a subdomain. This is needed because Hetzner Object Storage does not
  // support DNS-style bucket names. See:
  // https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html#VirtualHostingSpecifyBucket

  forcePathStyle: true,
});
```

## upload files

```tsx
import { S3Client } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

const s3 = new S3Client({
  region: "us-east-1",
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
  },
  forcePathStyle: true,
});

const uploadFile = async (file) => {
  const uploadParams = {
    Bucket: "your-bucket-name",
    Key: file.name,
    Body: file,
  };

  await s3.send(new PutObjectCommand(uploadParams));
};
```

## download files

```tsx
import { S3Client } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

const s3 = new S3Client({
  region: "us-east-1",
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
  },
  forcePathStyle: true,
});

const downloadFile = async (key) => {
  const downloadParams = {
    Bucket: "your-bucket-name",
    Key: key,
  };

  const response = await s3.send(new GetObjectCommand(downloadParams));
  return response.Body;
};
```

Commit message:

share button added to blog + new blog post created

content/blog/hetzner-object-storage-with-nextjs.mdx, after:

---
title: "hetzner object storage with nextjs (not finished)"
description: "Learn how to use hetzner object storage with nextjs"
date: "2025-06-28"
tags: ["nextjs", "hetzner", "object storage", "s3 storage"]
published: false
---

I've been working on an OMS recently and come across an issue of storing files in a distributed environment. First, when I set it up it was
saving the files in the local storage, but then I realised that it would not be a good idea to store the files in the local storage, so I
decided to use Hetzner object storage.

I looked into alternative file storing systems from uploadthing, cloudinary, and AWS S3. I saw that AWS S3 would be good but since I was already
using Hetzner for my hosting, I decided to use Hetzner object storage, to keep it all in one system.

One thing I ran into whilst setting up the object storage with my next.js application was that there wasn't any proper documentation about it.
Most of the documentation was for AWS S3, so it was a lot of trial and error to get it working, but I finally got it working. So, I decided to write this blog post to help others who are
setting up Hetzner object storage with their next.js application.

## setup

First, you need to create an object storage bucket in the Hetzner console. Then, you can use the `@aws-sdk/client-s3` package to interact with the object storage.

### install dependencies

```bash
npm install @aws-sdk/client-s3
```

### database update

Make sure to update your database schema to include a column for the file path. Should be something like this:

```prisma
model File {
  id        String   @id @default(cuid())
  fileName      String
  fileSize      Int
  mimeType      String
  filePath      String
  s3Url         String?
  uploadedBy    String
  uploadedAt    DateTime @default(now())

  // add your relations
  // add your indexes
}
```

### create s3 client

```tsx
import { S3Client } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

const s3 = new S3Client({
  region: "us-east-1", // Must include this or the SDK will throw an error
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
  },
  // This option configures the S3 client to use the "path style" access
  // scheme, where the bucket name is included in the URL path rather than
  // as a subdomain. This is needed because Hetzner Object Storage does not
  // support DNS-style bucket names. See:
  // https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/VirtualHosting.html#VirtualHostingSpecifyBucket

  forcePathStyle: true,
});
```

`Make sure to add the region as "us-east-1" or some filler, or else it will throw an error, and no file will be created. This goes the same for uploading, fetching and deleting.`

### upload files

```tsx
import { S3Client } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

const s3 = new S3Client({
  region: "us-east-1",
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
  },
  forcePathStyle: true,
});

const uploadFile = async (file) => {
  const uploadParams = {
    Bucket: "your-bucket-name",
    Key: file.name,
    Body: file,
  };

  await s3.send(new PutObjectCommand(uploadParams));
};
```

### download files

Make sure to add the logic first to find the file directory in your database.

```tsx
import { S3Client } from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

const s3 = new S3Client({
  region: "us-east-1",
  credentials: {
    accessKeyId: process.env.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    secretAccessKey: process.env.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
  },
  forcePathStyle: true,
});

const downloadFile = async (key) => {
  const downloadParams = {
    Bucket: "your-bucket-name",
    Key: key,
  };

  const response = await s3.send(new GetObjectCommand(downloadParams));
  return response.Body;
};
```
